
VOTE NO
ON CITY OF LAFAYETTE BALLOT  ISSUE NO. 2C
City of Lafayette Bus Pass Program Levy




My kids take an RTD bus every day.  They commute out of our Lafayette community into Boulder to attend a charter school.  We did not arrive at this decision lightly, but this was our choice, and we pay the price to get them to and from school.


While our family utilizes public transportation when we can, I know that personal circumstances dictate whether this solution can practically be interwoven into the busyness of everyday life.  For myself with three children, a full time job in Denver, multiple after school activities and numerous errands, public transportation is not even an option.


Issue No. 2C, the City of Lafayette Bus Pass Program Levy, does not care whether you can take the bus or not.  It will raise over a half million dollars next year through increased property taxes to subsidize anyone coming or going to and fro the Lafayette community via public transportation.


This November I urge Lafayette residents to vote no on Issue No. 2C, the City of Lafayette Bus Pass Program Levy.


This initiative discourages industry and community in Lafayette. Instead of creating economic opportunity within the city, we are subsidizing people to leave businesses and homes in our city and work and spend their dollars in other local communities.


Taxes which are related to use help guide behavior. In this case, taxing homeowners is unrelated to public transportation.  A better option would be to put an additional tax on gasoline to subsidize public transportation. This would encourage people to reduce consumption of carbon intensive resources.


RTD is already publically subsidized.  Most of RTD’s revenues are realized through sales taxes.  If demand for services is so low that it must be publically subsidized in its entirety, perhaps it is time to reexamine the service structure of RTD itself.


Several good models for neighborhood based subsidies for RTD passes already exist. The popular NECO (Neighborhood Ecopass) in Boulder has over 45 neighborhoods who have voluntarily joined this public transportation initiative. This model provides a hybrid where neighborhoods have the option of subsidizing citizens within their immediate community, but also citizens who are using public transportation bear part of the cost.


If the voters do want to subsidize transportation, shouldn’t we consider a needs based subsidy, so that we are using our dollars efficiently to provide mobility for citizens who truly need government assistance and would utilize public transportation?


I urge Lafayette citizens to please consider voting against this ill thought out initiative.


And if you don’t, I will be the first in line to get passes for my kids.  I’ll probably just get them for the whole family - just in case.  Do you really want to pay for our family, and others like us to bus our kids out of Lafayette?
